docs(pages): init reflex guide (#1778)
neondatabase/website: content/docs/guides/reflex.md

reflex run
```

The Reflex server starts and runs on `http://localhost:3000`.

## Configure Reflex connection settings

Now that you have set up a Reflex project, you can configure the connection settings to connect to Neon.

To configure the connection settings:

1. Open the `rxconfig.py` file in the project directory.

2. Adjust the following code in the `rxconfig.py` file to match your Neon connection details:

    ```python
    # rxconfig.py
    import reflex as rx

    config = rx.Config(
        app_name="new_project",
        # Connect to your own database.
        db_url="<connection-string-from-neon>",
    )
    ```

    Replace `<connection-string-from-neon>` with your Neon connection string. You can find all of the connection details listed above in the **Connection Details** widget on the Neon **Dashboard**. For more information, see [Connect from any application](/docs/connect/connect-from-any-app).

    <Admonition type="note">

    Replace the value for `db_url` with an environment variable or the connection string from Neon. For example, after creating an environment variable named `NEON_DATABASE_URL`, you can use it as follows:

    ```python
    import os

>     DB_URL = os.getenv("NEON_DATABASE_URL")

Reviewer: Just realized this code is incorrect on reading it through again. It should look like this:

```
database_url = os.getenv("NEON_DATABASE_URL", "sqlite:///reflex.db")

config = rx.Config(
    app_name="new_project",
    db_url=database_url,
    )
```

Author: The intent here would be to have Neon as the default and throw if not present. Just in the context of the guide.

Using Reflex, you can build frontend and backend applications using Python to manage the interaction between a the frontend UI and state with the server-side logic. To make the application data-driven, you can connect to Neon.

To connect to Neon from a Reflex application:

1. [Create a Neon project](#create-a-neon-project)
2. [Set up a Reflex project](#set-up-a-reflex-project)
3. [Configure Reflex connection settings](#configure-reflex-connection-settings)

## Create a Neon project

If you do not have one already, create a Neon project. Save your connection details including your password. They are required when defining connection settings.

To create a Neon project:

1. Navigate to the [Projects](https://console.neon.tech/app/projects) page in the Neon Console.
2. Click **New Project**.
3. Specify your project settings and click **Create Project**.

## Set up a Reflex project

To set up a Reflex project, you need to install the Reflex CLI and create a new project.

It's recommended to use a virtual environment to manage your project dependencies. To create a virtual environment, run the following command in your project directory:

> ```bash

Reviewer: These commands are specifically for Mac, for windows the commands are
```
py -3 -m venv .venv
.venv\Scripts\activate
```

python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```

In this example, `venv` is used to create a virtual environment. You can use any other virtual environment manager of your choice like `poetry`, `pipenv`, or `uv`.

### Install the Reflex CLI

To install the Reflex CLI, run the following command:

```bash
pip install reflex
```

### Create a new Reflex project

To create a new Reflex project, run the following command:

```bash

> reflex new new_project

Reviewer: This is not correct. Here we just create a folder as usual in python using `mkdir`
```
mkdir new_project
```
There is no command `new` in reflex

```

This command creates a new Reflex project named `new_project`.

### Initialize the Reflex project

> To initialize the Reflex project, navigate to the project directory and run the following command:

Reviewer: Here I would write to create the reflex project .....

```bash
cd new_project
reflex init
```

> This command initializes the Reflex project. You can also initialize the project with a specific template by running `reflex init --template <template-name>`. In this case, replace `<template-name>` with the name of the template you want to use. For this guide, 

Reviewer: I would probably remove this line about using `--template` as it might be a little confusing for a new user. I think just the explanation of what `init` command does should be enough.

we will use the default template.

> When a project is initialized, the Reflex CLI creates a project directory. THis directory contains the following files and directories:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a project is initialized, the Reflex CLI creates a project directory. This directory contains the following files and directories:
```

```
<new_project>
├── .web
├── assets

> ├── hello

Reviewer: `hello` here is not correct, it will be <new_project> as well

│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── <new_project>.py
└── rxconfig.py
```

The `rxconfig.py` file contains the project configuration settings. This is where the database connection settings will be defined.

> ### Start the Reflex server

Reviewer: I would change this to 
```
### Run the Reflex App
```

> To start the Reflex server, run the following command:

Reviewer: Change to: To run the Reflex app

```bash
reflex run
```

The Reflex server starts and runs on `http://localhost:3000`.

## Configure Reflex connection settings

Now that you have set up a Reflex project, you can configure the connection settings to connect to Neon.

To configure the connection settings:

1. Open the `rxconfig.py` file in the project directory.

2. Adjust the following code in the `rxconfig.py` file to match your Neon connection details:

> 

Reviewer 2: tab the codeblock in here so that it's aligned properly under step 2.

```python
# rxconfig.py
import reflex as rx

config = rx.Config(
    app_name="new_project",
    # Connect to your own database.
    db_url="<connection-string-from-neon>",
    # Change the frontend port.

>     frontend_port=3001,

Reviewer: why are we setting this?

)
```

> Replace `<connection-string-from-neon>` with your Neon connection string. You can find all of the connection details listed above in the **Connection Details** widget on the Neon **Dashboard**. For more information, see [Connect from any application](/docs/connect/connect-from-any-app).

Reviewer 2: tab this line in.

> 

Reviewer 2: tab the admonition in

<Admonition type="note">

Replace the value for `db_url` with an environment variable or the connection string from Neon. For example, after creating an environment variable named `NEON_DATABASE_URL`, you can use it as follows:

```python
import os

DB_URL = os.getenv("NEON_DATABASE_URL")

config = rx.Config(
    app_name="new_project",
    db_url=os.getenv("DB_URL"),

>     frontend_port=3001,

Reviewer: again is changing the frontend_port needed?

)
```

</Admonition>

3. Save the changes to the `rxconfig.py` file.

> Now, you can run the Reflex server and start building your Python full-stack application with Reflex and Neon.

Reviewer: I would say `you can run the Reflex app and ....`

> Now, you can run the Reflex server and start building your Python full-stack application with Reflex and Neon.

Reviewer 2: tab the above line in.

## Creating a data model

To create a data model in Reflex, you can define a Python class that represents the data structure. Reflex uses [sqlmodel](https://sqlmodel.tiangolo.com/) to provide a built-in ORM wrapping [SQLAlchemy](/docs/guides/sqlalchemy).

For example, you can create a `Customer` model as follows:

```python
# <new_project>/models.py

import reflex as rx

class Customer(rx.Model, table=True):
    """The customer model."""

    name: str
    email: str
    phone: str
    address: str

```

This code defines a `Customer` model with fields for `name`, `email`, `phone`, and `address`. The `table=True` argument tells Reflex to create a table in the database for this class.

You can then use this model to interact with the database and perform CRUD operations on the `Customer` data.

Creating the table with the model:

```bash

> reflex db create

Reviewer: should be `reflex db init`

```

This command creates the table in the database based on the model definition using an alembic migration.

Now you can use the `Customer` model to interact with the database and perform CRUD operations on the `Customer` data.

For example, you can add a new customer to the database as follows:

```python
with rx.session() as session:
    session.add(

>         User(

Reviewer: this would be `Customer(` not `User(`

            name="Alice",
            email="user@test.com",
            phone="1234567890",
            address="123 Main St",
        )
    )
    session.commit()
```

This code creates a new `Customer` object and adds it to the database using a session. The `session.commit()` method saves the changes to the database. If you change the table schema, you can run the following command to update the database:

```bash
reflex db makemigrations --message '<describe what changed>'
```

This command generates a new migration file that describes the changes to the database schema. You can then apply the migration to the database with the following command:

```bash
reflex db migrate
```

This command applies the migration to the database, updating the schema to match the model definition.

## Create a Data Viewer Dashboard in Reflex with Neon

> Learn how to use Reflex with Neon Postgres in the below project to create a an interactive Data Viewer Dashboard application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Learn how to use Reflex with Neon Postgres in the following project to create an interactive Data Viewer Dashboard application.
```

<DetailIconCards>

> <a href="https://github.com/reflex-dev/data-viewer" description="Reflex with Neon Postgres" icon="github">Reflex Data Viewer app</a>

Reviewer: I would change this to a newer better App that we have developed that is much better than this old one: https://github.com/reflex-dev/reflex-examples/tree/main/customer_data_app.

It will be coming out later this week, when we push all the updates, and I can send over the deployed app as well.
